a new report concludes Israel has failed
to provide evidence backing up its claim
that members of the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees were involved in
Terror activities Israel made the claim
in the aftermath of the October 7th
attacks which led to some donors
freezing funds for the UN agency but an
independent report reviewed the workings
and has concluded that the agency has
robust Frameworks to ensure compliance
let's get more on this story from Chris
gunnis a former Chief spokesperson for
the UN relief and works Agency for
Palestine refugees in the near East Rena
uh anra he joins us from London thank
you so much for taking the time i' I'd
like to start with your thoughts on this
report was this an expected outcome for
you well I certainly welcome the Colona
report which confirms the indispensable
role of unra and as a Lifeline as it
calls it it also confirms has
established a significant number of
mechanisms and procedures to ensure
compliance with humanitarian principles
this is important particularly the
principle of neutrality and the report
says unra possesses a more robust
approach to neutrality than any other UN
agency or NGO that's important because
at the moment people are trying to give
some of unus functions particularly in
Gaza and the West Bank over to other
agencies most significant if I may of
all the clan report States clearly that
though Israel has made public claims
that a large number of UNR employees are
members of terrorist organizations that
Israel has yet to provide supporting
evidence of this in other words the
allegations that triggered this crisis
that saw this massive famine remain
unsubstantiated unsubstantiated so it
would seem that the Israeli claims
amount to the mother of all lies and
that intelligence dossier it was based
on that intelligence dossier was a
dossier and if I may just make one last
point the curriculum the H curriculum
which has been much criticized um
according to the colonal report it says
that unra has been responsive to
criticism of its textbooks and has
initiated a range of initiatives to
ensure neutrality of its materials and
it finds the unus education policies
updated guidelines and manuals have
become robust and adequate for purpose
that's really you know that's quite a
thing for her to conclude the finding
that Israel has yet to back up its
claims does indeed seem to be the main
takeaway from this independent panel and
yet they have also cited serious gaps in
the agency upholding the principle of
neutrality specifically examples such as
staff openly stating political views on
social media uh for example is that
something that needs to be worked on
inside of unra in your
view well I and I think onra 2 will
welcome these recommendations and these
things being pointed out as they fully
align with un's continuous efforts to
improve and to keep Pace with evolving
challenges in fact continuous
Improvement is absolutely core to unr's
success under the microscope of scrutiny
and criticism over the years and that's
why unra is now considered by Miss
cloner as best among un and NOS on this
issue so I think yes these gaps are
important it's good that she's pointed
out but I think unra will embrace them
it's part of the continuous Improvement
that unra sees as calleda to its Zero
Tolerance policy against neutrality
violations now as we've hinted at
Israel's allegations came with with
serious consequences more than a dozen
countries suspended their contributions
in its wake that led to a pause in
funding of about
$450 million according to this report
could you give us an idea of what effect
that has had on the relief agency's
ability to
function I have to say it's had both a
political effect
um in that we've seen this attack this
political attack on unra which I think
lies behind the attempts by the Israeli
far right to discredit unra to defund
unra and ultimately to dismantle unra
but let's be clear as far as countries
like Germany are concerned Germany froze
its funding €2 200 million EUR a year
now that's had a devastating effect for
example unra in Gaza has been feeding
before the conflict 1.2 million people
now that's of course been put in
Jeopardy by this German decision and of
course the number of people unra is
feeding has almost doubled in that time
so I hope that Germany will think very
hard about this because you know the
German people I think will be mystified
why its government um would continue to
do this in the light of the fact that
the Colona report effectively says that
unra has processes in place for dealing
with neutrality and indeed the fact that
there were no that Israel has produced
no evidence at all to substantiate the
allegations on which Germany based its
decision to defund so let's hope that
Germany because we're now seeing so many
hundreds of thousands of people slipping
into starvation I think the German
government of all one of the richest in
the world will realize that you know2
200 million EUR for starvation no that
that doesn't that is not you know what I
would see as core German values so let's
hope that the German government will
refund thank you very much for joining
us on DW with those insights that's K
Chris gunis uh formerly with anra